.TH "DNSREPLAY" "1" "September 2012" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]dnsreplay\f[] \- A PowerDNS nameserver debugging tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]dnsreplay\f[] [\f[I]OPTION\f[]]...
\f[I]FILENAME\f[] \f[I]ADDRESS\f[] [\f[I]PORT\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program takes recorded questions and answers and replays them to
the specified nameserver and reporting afterwards which percentage of
answers matched, were worse or better.
.PP
dnsreplay compares the answers and some other metrics with the actual
ones with those found in the dumpfile.
.PP
By default it only replay queries with recursion\-desired flag set.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B FILENAME
is expected to be an PCAP file.
The queries are send to the DNS server specified as \f[I]ADDRESS\f[] and
\f[I]PORT\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B ADDRESS
IPv4 or IPv6 address of the nameserver to replay \f[I]FILENAME\f[] to.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B PORT
if omitted, 53 will be used.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-help | \-h
Show summary of options.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-ecs\-mask \f[I]VAL\f[]
When EDNS forwarding an IP address, mask out first octet with this value
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-ecs\-stamp \f[I]FLAG\f[]
Add original IP address as EDNS Client Subnet Option when forwarding to
reference server
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-packet\-limit \f[I]NUM\f[]
Stop after replaying \f[I]NUM\f[] packets.
Default for \f[I]NUM\f[] is 0, which means no limit.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-quiet \f[I]FLAG\f[]
If \f[I]FLAG\f[] is set to 1.
dnsreplay will not be very noisy with its output.
This is the default.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-recursive \f[I]FLAG\f[]
If \f[I]FLAG\f[] is set to 1.
dnsreplay will only replay queries with recursion desired flag set.
This is the default.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-speedup \f[I]FACTOR\f[]
Replay queries with this speedup \f[I]FACTOR\f[].
Default is 1.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-timeout\-msec \f[I]MSEC\f[]
Wait at least \f[I]MSEC\f[] milliseconds for a reply.
Default is 500.
.RS
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
dnsreplay has no certain handling for timeouts.
It handles around at most 65536 outstanding answers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
pcap(3PCAP), tcpdump(8), dnswasher(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Joerg Jungermann (jj+debian At borkum.net).
