.TH "IXPLORE" "1" "October 2015" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]ixplore\f[] \- A tool that provides insights into IXFRs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]ixplore\f[] \f[I]COMMAND\f[] \f[I]COMMAND_OPT\f[]...
.PP
\f[B]ixplore\f[] diff \f[I]ZONE\f[] \f[I]BEFORE\f[] \f[I]AFTER\f[]
.PP
\f[B]ixplore\f[] track \f[I]IP ADDRESS\f[] \f[I]PORT\f[] \f[I]ZONE\f[]
\f[I]DIRECTORY\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]ixplore\f[] is a tool to work with IXFR (incremental zonetransfers)
in two modes (specified by \f[I]COMMAND\f[]): diff or track.
.PP
In the \[aq]diff\[aq] mode, it will show a diff(1)\-like output between
\f[I]BEFORE\f[] and \f[I]AFTER\f[].
.PP
In the \[aq]track\[aq] mode, \f[B]ixplore\f[] consumes IXFRs from
\f[I]IP ADDRESS\f[] and writes the resulting zonefiles out to
\f[I]DIRECTORY\f[]/\f[I]ZONE\f[]\-serial.
If no initial zonefiles exist, an initial AXFR will be done first.
\f[B]ixplore\f[] will then check the SOA serial on \f[I]IP ADDRESS\f[]
for \f[I]ZONE\f[] every SOA Refresh seconds and perform an IXFR if the
serial has increased.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS diff\-mode
.TP
.B ZONE
The name of the zone the IXFRs are consumed from.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B BEFORE
Path to the \[aq]before\[aq] zonefile.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B AFYER
Path to the \[aq]after\[aq] zonefile.
.RS
.RE
.SS track\-mode
.TP
.B IP ADDRESS
The IP address to consume IXFRs from.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B PORT
The port to use on \f[I]IP ADDRESS\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B ZONE
Name of the zone to track changes of.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B DIRECTORY
Directory where the zonefiles will be stored.
.RS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
diff(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Pieter Lexis (pieter.lexis\@powerdns.com).
