.TH "NPROXY" "1" "April 2016" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]nproxy\f[] \- DNS notification proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
nproxy \-\-powerdns\-address \f[I]ADDRESS\f[] [\f[I]OPTION\f[]]...
\f[I]ADDRESS\f[]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]nproxy\f[] is a simple daemon that reads DNS NOTIFY queries on one
address and forwards them to an \[aq]inner\[aq] nameserver that will
process the notification.
.PP
Its usecase is e.g.
a private authoritative server inside a NAT or firewalled LAN where
\f[B]nproxy\f[] is deployed in the DMZ.
.PP
The PowerDNS Authoritative Server has the trusted\-notification\-proxy
option that should be set to the address set with
\f[I]\-\-origin\-address\f[] to accept these proxied notifications.
.PP
\f[B]nproxy\f[] also has a health\-check option built in.
A query for \[aq]pdns.nproxy.\[aq] with QType \[aq]TXT\[aq] will be
responded to with an answer of "OK" (inside the TXT record.
When the query is for an A\-record, \[aq]1.2.3.4.\[aq] is returned.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-powerdns\-address \f[I]ADDRESS\f[]
IP address of the PowerDNS server to forward the notifications to.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-chroot \f[I]PATH\f[]
chroot to \f[I]PATH\f[] for additional security.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-setuid \f[I]UID\f[]
setuid to this numerical \f[I]UID\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-setgid \f[I]GID\f[]
setgid to this numerical \f[I]GID\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-origin\-address \f[I]ADDRESS\f[]
Set the source of the notifications sent to PowerDNS to
\f[I]ADDRESS\f[].
By default, the best matching address (kernel\[aq]s choice) is used.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-listen\-address \f[I]ADDRESS\f[]
IP addresses to listen on.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-listen\-port \f[I]PORT\f[]
Source port to listen on, 53 by default.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-d,\-\-daemon \f[I]ARG\f[]
Set \f[I]ARG\f[] to 0 to disable running in the background.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v,\-\-verbose
Be verbose
.RS
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
PowerDNS.com BV.
